This video shows how to prevent and reduce
heat inside your computer by keeping it clean
and ventilated.
If Windows stops responding,
the fans become louder,
or the mouse and keyboard stop responding,
the computer might be overheating.
Before beginning, make sure the area around
the computer is clear to avoid electrical shock.
Work on a noncarpeted floor to
avoid electrostatic shock.
Avoid any sharp edges.
The most common causes of excessive heat are:
dust inside the computer,
a new component such as a hard drive,
high room temperatures,
or worn out cooling fans.
Follow these steps to test the computer for
heat issues.
First, remove the side panel screws and slide
the panel open to cool the computer.
Keep items away from the inside of the computer
to avoid damage.
Turn off the computer and unplug the power
cable while the side panel is open.
Wait for the computer to cool.
Plug in the power cable and turn on the computer.
Try starting a software program that has recently
stopped responding.
If the issue persists, continue to the next step.
Verify that the computer fans are operational.
With the computer powered on, look inside
to find the cooling fans.
If one of the fans is not moving or makes
an unusual sound,
turn off the computer and replace the fan.
Some components can be damaged by electrostatic
discharge (ESD).
To reduce the chance of ESD damage,
work over a non-carpeted floor,
use a static dissipative work surface (such
as a foam pad),
and wear an ESD wrist strap connected to a
grounded surface.
Dust can build up around the internal components
and obstruct air flow.
Follow these steps to clean the computer.
Turn off the computer
and disconnect the power cord.
Use canned air or a small vacuum cleaner to
clean all of the exterior vents.
Do not use a vacuum cleaner to clean the inside
of the computer.
Doing so might damage the computer.
Replace the computer side panel.
Connect the power cord and turn on the computer.
If the issue persists, continue to the next step.
Make sure there is enough space around the
computer for ventilation.
Place the computer upright on a level surface.
Make sure there is at least 15.25 centimeters,
or 6 inches,
of space in front and back of the computer.
Place the computer in a cool room to prevent
it from overheating.
A small difference in temperature might prevent
damage to the computer.
Check the HP Support website to check for
available BIOS updates.
To download updates from HP's website,
open your web browser and go to hp.com/drivers.
Follow the on-screen instructions to download and update the drivers and BIOS on your computer.
Install another fan to draw out extra heat.
Case fans, such as a slot fan, are available
at most computer supply stores.
These fans can be installed into a slot next
to the video card.
Follow the instructions included with the
fan to install it,
then replace the side panel and plug in the
power cord.
Turn on the computer.
If heat-related issues remain, continue to
the next step.
Test for hardware failure when troubleshooting
heat issues.
At the Start screen, type diagnostic software,
then select Diagnostic Software from the Search
charm results.
Follow the on-screen instructions to test
for hardware failure.
You can find additional helpful videos at
hp.com/SupportVideos
and on our YouTube channel, youtube.com/HowTo4U.